welcome to q state coffee break it's
wonderful to see you
as usual i would like to address three
marketing questions that come to the
community members and also my email
subscribers
list
and i hope these three questions will
help you if you have any specific
questions related to my answers reach
out to me anytime hello pmdinner.com or
join my facebook community build your
marketing skills to get ahead so these
are three questions number one how can i
generate leads through content marketing
and select the best marketing channels
to do so okay that is a very popular
question i want to address a very
holistic view in terms of what you can
tackle that number two marketing
attribution is one of the challenges i
agree with that over time the number of
the channels we use tend to increase so
how can i pinpoint which efforts are
moving the needles i love this specific
question as well many marketers have
this specific question i want to talk
about what you can do using marketing
technology number three
in b2b marketing trends you know that
comes in gold and changes um
happen frequently how can i keep up with
the nominees and the key might be to be
content fresh and compelling
and this question is a little bit
generic and it's actually from one of my
email subscribers i want to touch a
little bit in terms of what you can do
on that all right so let's get started
on question number one
how can i generate leads through content
marketing and select the best marketing
channels to do so to answer that
question there's no template and every
company's and every business does their
marketing differently what works for me
and what works for a specific company
does not necessarily apply to you i want
to make that very clear to everybody i
know all of us are looking for templates
looking for the best practice and also
looking for what is the easiest way to
do it but what i would suggest you to do
is do a self-reflection
look at your own companies in terms of
what you are doing to generate leads at
this time
and also have a list of the marketing
channel you are using write those
channels down
and run an analytics have some data to
determine what channels are working and
what channels are not
so do a little bit of homework right and
have holistic views in terms of what
channels are working and what channels
are not working for i'm going to use my
myself as an example i do email
marketing i create youtube video and i
have the facebook community i also speak
at different conferences
and i'm looking at all these channels i
can tell you like the best way for me to
get leads and also prospects is actually
from attending conferences and speaking
uh doing workshops and also session
right so i know that for sure and then i
can i understand that's where my most
leads come from and that will be the
marketing channels i will focus the most
so when you are doing your marketing
effort you need to think through are you
doing email marketing are you doing even
marketing are you doing any kind of
social media marketing understand the
data for each of the channel how they
actually convert how do they perform and
not necessarily focus on okay you know i
get a lot of likes i got a lot of shares
but that really doesn't mean a lot
unless you can pinpoint understand who
are sharing who are actually commenting
on your social media channel and
correlate that with your crm right you
need to identify if they are the new
prospect or they are existing customers
does that make sense the most important
thing a lot of people are asking these
specific questions how do i generate
more leads my recommendation to you and
them is always look at your past data
right determine what actually works
and what doesn't work and then look
ahead in terms of what are some of the
channel that you want to test and see if
you can optimize and make it better
is that helpful so look at the data use
the data and have a conversation as a
team and determine what the next step
that you should do and there is no
panacea and i want to say that one more
time there's no panacea for this
specific answer every company does
differently i will look at your own
company in terms of what your practices
are and then make what needs to be
changed
that's question number one question
number two
marketing attribution is one of the
challenges i agree with that 100
over time the number of the channels i
use tend to increase that is true as
well
how can i pinpoint which efforts are
moving the needle
you know what
it's very hard it is very hard
especially in the digital marketing
world that every single companies are
using multi-channel approach they are
tackling multiple different channels and
they
share the information they do a lot of
outbound marketing to drive the inbound
traffic
and it's very hard to see which channel
works and a lot of time many channels
probably coexist work very nicely
together like people who come to my
workshop the next things they will do is
they will do google search organically
and say pam dinner just check out who
pam dinner is
and during the workshop i encourage them
to join my facebook community you know
what they might join they might not join
right and when they check me out on my
website and i also say hey subscribe to
my newsletter
and if you know from the marketing from
the attribution of attending my uh
workshop that's the first attribution
down to check me out organically and
also do a google search that's a second
touch point right that's the second
attribution
and then move on to subscribe to my
newsletter getting my newsletter that's
a third touch point which is another
attribution
and everybody follow that customer
journey a little bit differently
you cannot create like you know like one
or multiple or thousands of the customer
journey to tailor for different people
what you can do is look at the pattern
right i will look at the pattern and
somehow anticipate what people might do
after they're attending my workshops in
the session at the conferences
and then i build a customer journey back
based on that pattern does that make
sense so what you need to do is the same
thing so
my first question i tell you you need to
have a holistic view in terms of the
marketing channels that your company
used
doing the same thing for the marketing
attribution you should have that
knowledge as well
the sure definition of the marketing
definition is the following okay
it's really
the
analysis that you do to determine which
marketing tactics
are contributing to sales or conversions
so with that specific definition it's
really drive conversion and also sales
so a lot of the marketing contribution
tend to focus on the last touch point
the touch point that before they contact
you or contact the sales directly
but before the last touch point many
things happen along the way that doesn't
mean that you should ignore
all the touch points that happen before
the last marketing attribution does that
make sense
so the way to track everybody's you know
what's the touch point is that
everything you do you need to have some
sort of utm or some sort of pixel or
some sort of tracker
so you know that a lot of the
the website depending on which channel
they use they have a utm code associated
with each channel
while they're doing that that's because
they can track
which channel does that come from
and then they will determine which
channel is actually effective to drive
the inbound traffic
so in order to do that you need to
understand that every single channel you
use needs to have some sort of tagging
and also you need to have a back-end
integrations that's built up to ensure
that when the data or your customer is
moving from one place to another you can
track them
so now you know the magic of
programmatic ads right you do some
google search on certain furniture for
certain clothes and then there's ad
following you around for a little while
well that's a very targeted ad and
that's what happened and that's the way
how digital work
if you want to use digital data very
effectively you need to make sure you
learn how to track them and that's where
marketing attribution comes from that's
why it's very very important like i said
majority of the people at this point
giving that we engage with brands
and or with uh products online and
offline offline
it's very hard to track the marketing
attribution but online if you do it the
right way you can really track your
customers and what they do online of
course you need to take into account in
terms of a privacy concern
so
the key things to answer the second
question i want to make sure you
understand is understand
in terms of what attribution that you
want to track the first the last or
somewhere in the middle
make sure you build the system to track
that
understand the holistic view of your
marketing channel and really look at the
data to determine what channel is
effective for you
it does take a little bit of time to
kind of go through that process if you
have any specific questions let me know
we can talk about it all right
question number three
in b2b marketing trends
that
you know it can be overwhelming
and uh there's a lot of technology and
platforms that come and go how can i
keep up with uh the novelties of the
the technology and also keep my b2b
content fresh and compelling
i want to address that in two ways one
is the personal development of
professional development as an
individual as a b2b marketer and the
other one is the content that you're
going to create for your company
so
we
as a marketer we tend to focus on like
the shining subject
right oh everybody is on twitter that's
do twitter oh my god everybody is on
tick tock that's have a tick tock
account
and
my recommendation in terms of what
specific knowledge or discipline that
you have to learn over a period of time
it will determine what your interest is
and also what your career path
from my perspective as a marketer
there's two ways right you can focus on
very specific marketing discipline like
seo the only thing you know is seo
search engine uh
marketing or you want to be well-rounded
you want to make sure that you know
domain generation marketing strategy mod
tag
ability to work with sales and in
addition to paid media social media and
the old different marketing discipline
a lot of people tend to be overwhelmed
they will look at three different blogs
and they got overwhelmed and also
confused in terms of what they should
focus on
and on the professional development
front depending on what you want to do
if you really want to hone into a
specific marketing discipline then focus
on that specific field
if you really want to move off move up
the corporate ladders and eventually
become a vp of marketing or cmo chief
marketing officers you need to actually
have a certain knowledge and horizontal
you know have a different marketing
discipline that you need to understand
with that specific um
direction in terms of understanding
different marketing discipline
i would really focus on
uh understand what each marketing
discipline do and how
that marketing field connected to the
others does that make sense for example
if you are even marketers you need to
understand that how to do you need to
you need to have an understanding of how
social media can drive button seats for
your event so you need to have some
understanding of that that doesn't mean
you have to do the job but you need to
understand that what social media do can
do to actually help you drive some bus t
for your events right and after the
events you are using email marketing to
actually nurture and also do a follow-up
with attendees or the people that come
to your booth well understand what email
marketing can do but that doesn't mean
you have to write a copy but understand
how to leverage email marketing and the
leverage and maximize email marketing as
a follow-up post event
right so understand how different
marketing elements that were tied
together
will give you some holistic view
in terms of
what and how marketing can integrate
and as a senior manager you need to
possess
that knowledge and ability to connect
different thoughts does that make sense
so that's one part of it you need to
understand in terms of digital marketing
for this specific question i also want
to answer from the perspective of
if to do your job how do you keep your
content fresh and compelling
and for that
i think it's very important it's not
necessarily from your perspective like
oh how do i keep my content fresh and
compelling you need to think from your
customers perspective
and
to keep it fresh and compelling it's
your point of view
but you need to think from your
customers point of view who are
consuming the content
and how important it is to keep it fresh
and compelling sometimes
it doesn't have to
sometimes it's just basically reminding
your customer in terms of your product
and services or reinforce some of your
product features and key points or
sometimes it's just basically
understanding and looking to the future
trends to educate your customers does
that make sense
so
the keeping your content fresh and
compelling i will come from the
perspective in terms of what your
customers needs are
and then create an editorial that makes
sense
and as educational and relevant and
useful for your customers not
necessarily in terms of okay how do i
keep it fresh
and of course you can update your
content on a regular basis
but again it's from coming from the
perspective of your customers needs and
their pain points and also aspiration
all right so that's my answer for all
the questions for this week again if you
want to reach out to me anytime to let
me know hello pmdena.com and also
subscribe to my youtube channel comment
below i would really appreciate that
okay enjoy my face facebook community
will be great too and i answer every
single question myself take care bye